In this video, we are going to introduce
you to Thymeleaf. Thyme happens to be
aromanic perennial evergreen herb with
culinary medical and ornamental uses.
This is right from Wikipedia. Interestingly,
Egyptians used Thyme for embalming
and the Greeks believed that time was a
source of courage. But why Thyme made it
into the name Thymeleaf, I have no idea. I
couldn't find out why that was chosen
for Thymeleaf, which is a Java Templating
Engine. Now this came out onto the scene
in 2011. It was originally created by
Daniel Fernandez from Spain. He created
the Thymeleaf project and as far as I
know, he's still involved with that. The
team has grown a little bit. It has grown
rapidly in popularity. a lot of people
really like Thymeleaf. It has been really
embraced by the Spring community. It
seems to be the template engine of
choice right now. So if you see any of
the Spring guys developing stuff, they're
usually turning to Thymeleaf as they're
templating engine of choice. It is
pronounced as time or taim depending on
your accent. I was making a mistake if
you look at some of my early YouTube
videos, you'll hear me saying Thiem leaf
so I got in my head that was Thymeleaf.
It is actually Thymeleaf, so that was
actually my mistake there. If you go
back in time and look at some of my
early work on YouTube, you'll see me
mispronouncing this. Some of the features
of Thymeleaf, it is a Java template
engine. It's going to produce XML, XHTML
and HTML5. In this course, we are going to
be looking towards HTML5. That is the
primary use that we're going to be using
the Thymeleaf templating engine for. Now
Thymeleaf is a natural replacement for
JSPs also known as Java Server Pages.
That is the Java Enterprise Edition
reference standard for a template engine.
Thymeleaf is a 'Natural' Template Engine
meaning that the templates are viewable
in a web browser. That's a very important
feature which we'll talk to in a moment.
I do want to point out that is not tied
to a web environment so at runtime, you
don't need the servlet engine or any
type of web environment, that can be used
completely externally to it.
There are use cases where you will use
it to produce this HTML, like for putting
into an email. People do get confused
that Thymeleaf is a web framework. It
absolutely is not a web framework. It has
one purpose in life. That is to take a a
template and convert it to HTML, so that
is it in a nutshell. It is not a
full-blown web framework. It works very
nicely in conjunction with Spring MVC
and other Java technologies. It's not
tied to Spring specifically. Any Java
technology can utilize it but its
function in life as strictly to produce
HTML. Now some of the differences between
Thymeleaf and JSPs, the Thymeleaf
templates are actually valid HTML
documents that you can view right in the
browser and this is what we mean by a
Natural templating engine. The Thymeleaf
syntax actually extends out the
namespace. I'll show you that here at
the end of the presentation so that the
HTML is actually valid. You specify a
Thymeleaf namespace so you're using
standard tags that comply with HTML.
In the browser, it's done in a way that
the browser actually ignores that stuff,
ignores the chatter for the templating
engine so that everything looks normal.
Now JSP files on the other hand, they're
not valid HTML. You have a lot of
tags and what not scattered through. If
you try to view one in a browser, it
actually looks pretty awful
because the browser is seeing a lot of
stuff in there. It doesn't know what to
do with. Now, by a Natural templating
ability, this means that you can see in
development. It really does speed things
up for you because you can open
up a browser and work on that and just
refresh without having tomcat
running or without having to restart
tom to get or anything like that. It
really does to save you development time
because you're essentially just editing
an HTML file and then you sprinkle in
Thymeleaf tags and everything works, so
you can do small tweaks to update
the HTML structure and view that without
running anything else. It really does
save you a lot of time. Now I want to
talk about Thymeleaf Performance. I've seen
a lot of benchmarks out there. It does
benchmark slower than other template
engines such as JSP, Freemarkers, and
Velocity. Velocity has been around for a
very long time, but Spring 5 is no longer
supporting with Velocity. I think, it's
not a specific reason. It looked like
Velocity kind of died on the leaf but
they just came out with a second release
and I think the Spring guys are saying
Hey, you guys can write the extensions
into Spring for Velocity if you want.
We're not going to do it. So a little bit
going back and forth there. But right now,
as at the time of recording of this
which is end of July 2018, Spring 5 is
not supporting Velocity. It's an
important note there. They do seem to
really like Thymeleaf though, so I think
they'll be around for sometime.
Just recently, Thymeleaf 3.0 came out and
this did have some very significant
performance and improvements. I've looked
at the benchmarks. iStill not quite
where they are. It has definitely improved.
So if you're talking about Thymeleaf tip,
beware of old benchmark data. The
early versions of Thymeleaf are very slow.
It has spread up significantly. I don't think
it's on powerr with JSPs or Freemarker, but
you want to pass along. This here, we have
a saving in the states that your mileage
may vary. So with any benchmark, be aware
that your mileage actually may
vary. It is hard under production
conditions to completely replicate a
benchmark. So take benchmarks with a
grain of salt because there's a lot of
things that go into benchmarks and
performance.
There's a lot of variables in those
so like. I said, your mileage may vary
with benchmarks specifically. Now let's
take a look at an actual Thymeleaf
template. Here's an example. You will
be seeing this coming up in the course.
We will explain everything in here but I
just wanted you see this is a standard
HTML document. You can see right at the
top DOCTYPE html. The second line there,
you can see that we are declaring an XML
namespace for Thymeleaf. That is
an XML schema there. If we look down,
let's see here. You can see midway down after
the web jar is coming in for bootstrap,
you can see the th:href. That
is a Thymeleaf tag in there and that is
saying when the browser is going to go
ahead and show the bootstrap CSS from
that bootstrapcdn.com. It's going to
show it there when you view it directly
in the browser. But when you run this in
Spring Boot through the Thymeleaf engine.
It's going to replace that tag with a
reference to the web jar, so you can see
that th:href there, that as a
replacement. We are definitely going
to be getting into a lot more of the
Thymeleaf commands as we progress to
through the course. So don't worry about
that too much right now. Just want to
give you an example here, so this is a
Thymeleaf template. Here, we can see the
th colon stuff scattered in there. Those
are actual Thymeleaf templating
commands that we are going to be
leveraging coming up in the course. But
don't worry, we will definitely
explain those going forward.